#### SQL Queries
- consider following 3 tables
- emp :- empid, firstname, dept id, sal, hireDate , mgrid
- orders:- orderid, empid, productid, quantity, orderdate
- products:- productid, productname, price, category
- dept :- deptid, deptname
1. write a query to rank emp based on their sal with each dept ,display rank also
- select deptid, firstname, sal, rank() over (partition by deptid order by sal desc) from emp;
2. retrive the cumilative sales for each product
- SELECT 
    productid, 
    orderdate,
    SUM(quantity) OVER (PARTITION BY productid ORDER BY orderdate) AS cumulative_sales
FROM orders;
3. identify the dept with highest sal with expenditure
- SELECT deptid, SUM(sal) AS total_sal, SUM(sal * 12) AS expenditure FROM emp GROUP BY deptid ORDER BY expenditure DESC LIMIT 1;
4. identify the products that have not been ordered
- select productid from product where productid not in (select productid from orders);
5. find emp who have same manager and earn > 70000
- select empname from emp where sal>70000 and group by mgrid having count(*)> 1;
6. to detect duplicate rows in orders table , display only those duplicate rows
- select * from order where orderid in (select orderid from orders group by orderid having count(*)> 1);
7. fetch the detailes of orders placed on same day by multiple employees
- select * from orders where orderdate in (select orderdate from orders group by orderdate having count(*)> 1);
8. write a query to fetch the emps whos order total quantity b/w 50 and 100
- select empid from orders where quantity between 50 and 100 group by empid;
9. fetch the 2nd highest quantity ordered for each product
- select productid, quantity from orders where quantity = (select distinct quantity from orders order by quantity desc limit 1,1);
10. find min and max order quantity for each emp
- select empid, min(quantity), max(quantity) from orders group by empid;
11. write a query to split emp sal into quartiles
- 
12. create a temp table for orders with revenue > 5000 revenue means quantity * price
- 
13. fetch the names of emp who have plased > 10 orders
14. write a query to create view that shows emp names and dept names
15. list the depts with no emps assingend
16. find 2nd and 3rd highest sal from emp table
17. wire a query to fetch total revenue generated by each emp  sum of quantity * price
18. find emp name who joined in the company in the same year as their manages joined 
19. display detailes of products for which total orders 
20. display names of all emp along with total no of orders they handled
21. write a query to fertch detailes of mosr recently hired emp
22. find names of emp who not placed any orders
23. display top 3 products with highest total quantity sold
24. display names of emp earning more than the avg sal
25. find no of emp hired each year
26. find total quantity of products orderd for each product
27. display detailes of top 3 highest paid emps
28. find emps who dont have manager
29. find avg product price for each category
30. display id of the dept which have total highest sal among all depts
#### union vs union all
#### NVL and NVL2
- select NVL(column_name,value_to_replace) from table;
- select NVL(sal,0) from emp;
- select NVL2(column_name, value_if_true, value_if_false) from table;
- selct NVL2(sal, sal*2, 0) from emp;
1. Find last day of next month using sql in oracle
- select dayname(last_day(date_add(curdate(),interval 1 month)));

#### problem
# Example usage:
# Construct the tree as per your example
#           40
#        /      \
#      30        60
#       \        / \
#       35     50   70
#      /  \    / \   \
#    32   38  45 58   80
#      \              /  \
#      34            75   90  
#                   / \     \
#                  72 76    100
#                           /
#                          96

1. ur given BST or binary tree , Display value of only left boundary nodes
- o/p:- 40, 30 35 32 34
2. same as 1 but print only right boundary nodes
- o/p:- 40 60 70 80 90 100  96
3. print only leaf node from left to right
- o/p:- 34 38 45 48 62 66 72 76 96
4. 1st print only left boundary nodes then and print only leaf nodes and then print only right boundary nodes(border traversal)

#### coding problems
1. 